README.md, before:

# General Info
Second member of the homedoc scripts that query local computer or network feature, parses its content and produces a small (local) LLM enhanced report; HomeDoc — Journal Analyzer queries status of tailscale and writes a timestamped report.

I am experimenting to find potential use cases for local LLMs as semantic engines that convert the often too technical program outputs into more understandable reports/explanation/documentation for us half or two third literates in the world of technical jargon. Maybe this or similar scripts can be useful to somebody.

# Disclaimer
This and other scripts (as well as accompanying texts/files/documentation) are written by (mostly) GPT-5, so be aware of potential security issues or plain nonsense; never run code that you haven't inspected. I tried to minimize the potential damage by sticking to the very simple approach of single file scripts with as little dependencies as possible.

If you want to commit, feel free to fork, mess around and put "ai slop" on my "ai slop", or maybe deslop it enirely, but there is no garantuee that I will incorporate changes.

# HomeDoc — Journal Analyzer

![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.1-blue.svg)
![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg)

Single-file, stdlib-only utility that:
1) reads Linux logs (`journalctl` and/or `dmesg`) with sensible presets,
2) clusters repeated problems,
3) (optionally) asks a local LLM (Ollama-compatible HTTP) to produce a concise Markdown triage,
4) writes either a **flat** single-file report (default) or a folder with artifacts.

> Designed to mirror the style/flags of the first homedoc script (tailscale status).

> The CLI installs as `homedoc-journal-analyzer` with a shorter alias `lyseur`.

## Run or Install

```bash
# Run directly without installing (quick streaming triage)
python3 homedoc_journal_analyzer.py --quick

# Or via the installed CLI entry points (alias: lyseur)
homedoc-journal-analyzer --quick
# or
lyseur --quick
```

```bash
pipx install .
# or
pip install .
```

## Quickstart

```bash
# Flat output directly into a file (placeholders: {ts}, {model})
homedoc-journal-analyzer \\
  --server http://localhost:11434/api/generate \\
  --model qwen3:14b \\
  --outfile ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/journal_analyzer/{ts}_{model}_journal.md

# or use the alias
lyseur \\
  --server http://localhost:11434/api/generate \\
  --model qwen3:14b \\
  --outfile ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/journal_analyzer/{ts}_{model}_journal.md
```

### Interactive helper

Run without flags (or pass `--interactive`) to open a guided prompt that starts from the one-hour quick scan and lets you pick the model (gemma3:12b default, `q` for gemma3:4b, `t` for qwen3:14b, or custom), server, and how to display the reply (`Enter`=terminal without thinking, `t`=terminal plus the model's `<thinking>` block, `f`=file report). Advanced prompts cover look-back window, filters, artifacts, and whether to include the thinking transcript by default.

### Folder mode (automatically when --outdir or extra artifacts)

```bash
# Folder mode works with either entry point name
homedoc-journal-analyzer --all --tag-model --outdir ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/runs
# or
lyseur --all --tag-model --outdir ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/runs
```

## Key flags

- `--source journal|dmesg|both` (default: journal)
- `--mode error|warn|all|security|boot|kernel` (default: error)
- `--last 24h` / `--since` / `--until`
- `--grep REGEX`
- **Output layout**
  - `--outfile PATH` (flat; supports `{ts}` and `{model}` placeholders)
  - `--outdir DIR` (forces folder mode), `--no-flat` (folder), `--tag-model`, `--no-stamp-names`
  - `--md` (default), `--json`, `--log`, `--all`
- **LLM**
  - `--server` (alias of `--model-url`), `--model` (default: qwen3:14b), `--no-llm`
- `--quick` (1h journal errors, gemma3:4b, streamed output without thinking), `--interactive`
- `--show-thinking` (include the model's `<thinking>` block in terminal/file outputs)
- **Guards**
  - `--max-entries`, `--limit`, `--yes`, `--no`

## Update

If you installed with `pipx`, refresh the package:

```bash
pipx upgrade homedoc-journal-analyzer
```

For a `pip` installation:

```bash
pip install --upgrade homedoc-journal-analyzer
```

## Debugging

`--debug` logs:
- full LLM JSON payload (prompt + options) once,
- 10s streaming summaries (elapsed, chunks, chars, ~tokens, tok/s),
- final summary,
- cluster preview (top 20).

> Security note: payloads include real log text; only enable on trusted hosts.

## Preflight

- The script counts candidate lines first to avoid grinding through millions of events and to allow capping the work load. 
- If over the threshold (`--max-entries`), you'll be prompted (or auto-capped with `--yes`/CI).

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See `LICENSE`.

Commit message:

Implement OpenWebUI handoff and release v0.1.2

README.md, after:

# General Info
Second member of the homedoc scripts that query local computer or network feature, parses its content and produces a small (local) LLM enhanced report; HomeDoc — Journal Analyzer queries status of tailscale and writes a timestamped report.

I am experimenting to find potential use cases for local LLMs as semantic engines that convert the often too technical program outputs into more understandable reports/explanation/documentation for us half or two third literates in the world of technical jargon. Maybe this or similar scripts can be useful to somebody.

# Disclaimer
This and other scripts (as well as accompanying texts/files/documentation) are written by (mostly) GPT-5, so be aware of potential security issues or plain nonsense; never run code that you haven't inspected. I tried to minimize the potential damage by sticking to the very simple approach of single file scripts with as little dependencies as possible.

If you want to commit, feel free to fork, mess around and put "ai slop" on my "ai slop", or maybe deslop it enirely, but there is no garantuee that I will incorporate changes.

# HomeDoc — Journal Analyzer

![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.2-blue.svg)
![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg)

Single-file, stdlib-only utility that:
1) reads Linux logs (`journalctl` and/or `dmesg`) with sensible presets,
2) clusters repeated problems,
3) (optionally) asks a local LLM (Ollama-compatible HTTP) to produce a concise Markdown triage,
4) writes either a **flat** single-file report (default) or a folder with artifacts.

> Designed to mirror the style/flags of the first homedoc script (tailscale status).

> The CLI installs as `homedoc-journal-analyzer` with a shorter alias `lyseur`.

## Run or Install

```bash
# Run directly without installing (quick streaming triage)
python3 homedoc_journal_analyzer.py --quick

# Or via the installed CLI entry points (alias: lyseur)
homedoc-journal-analyzer --quick
# or
lyseur --quick
```

```bash
pipx install .
# or
pip install .
```

## Quickstart

```bash
# Flat output directly into a file (placeholders: {ts}, {model})
homedoc-journal-analyzer \\
  --server http://localhost:11434/api/generate \\
  --model qwen3:14b \\
  --outfile ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/journal_analyzer/{ts}_{model}_journal.md

# or use the alias
lyseur \\
  --server http://localhost:11434/api/generate \\
  --model qwen3:14b \\
  --outfile ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/journal_analyzer/{ts}_{model}_journal.md
```

### Interactive helper

Run without flags (or pass `--interactive`) to open a guided prompt that starts from the one-hour quick scan and lets you pick the model (gemma3:12b default, `q` for gemma3:4b, `t` for qwen3:14b, or custom), server, and how to display the reply (`Enter`=terminal without thinking, `t`=terminal plus the model's `<thinking>` block, `f`=file report). Advanced prompts cover look-back window, filters, artifacts, and whether to include the thinking transcript by default.

### Folder mode (automatically when --outdir or extra artifacts)

```bash
# Folder mode works with either entry point name
homedoc-journal-analyzer --all --tag-model --outdir ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/runs
# or
lyseur --all --tag-model --outdir ~/Obsidian/IT/homedoc/runs
```

## Key flags

- `--source journal|dmesg|both` (default: journal)
- `--mode error|warn|all|security|boot|kernel` (default: error)
- `--last 24h` / `--since` / `--until`
- `--grep REGEX`
- **Output layout**
  - `--outfile PATH` (flat; supports `{ts}` and `{model}` placeholders)
  - `--outdir DIR` (forces folder mode), `--no-flat` (folder), `--tag-model`, `--no-stamp-names`
  - `--md` (default), `--json`, `--log`, `--all`
- **LLM**
  - `--server` (alias of `--model-url`), `--model` (default: qwen3:14b), `--no-llm`
- **Handoff**
  - `--handoff w --openwebui BASE [--token TOKEN] [--open-browser]` (OpenWebUI ≥ 0.6.15)
  - `OPENWEBUI_TOKEN` env var (or prompt) provides the Bearer token when `--token` is omitted
  - `--allow-unstable-openwebui` overrides the version gate if you must target older servers
- `--quick` (1h journal errors, gemma3:4b, streamed output without thinking), `--interactive`
- `--show-thinking` (include the model's `<thinking>` block in terminal/file outputs)
- **Guards**
  - `--max-entries`, `--limit`, `--yes`, `--no`

### OpenWebUI handoff (`--handoff w`)

Release v0.1.2 introduces a stateless OpenWebUI bridge that uploads the Markdown + JSON artifacts from the current run, stores them in a fresh knowledge collection, and seeds a visible chat with the existing assistant summary followed by a kickoff question.

```bash
homedoc-journal-analyzer \
  --handoff w \
  --openwebui https://openwebui.example \
  --token sk-... \
  --open-browser
```

What happens:

1. Token sanity-check via `GET /api/models` (401 triggers a single masked re-prompt).
2. `report.md` and `report.json` upload to `/api/v1/files/upload`.
3. A `homedoc-run-<timestamp>` knowledge collection (or collection fallback) is created and bound to those files.
4. A chat titled `homedoc run — <YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM>` is created with the previous assistant output and a starter user turn.
5. `/api/chat/completions` runs once to ensure the reply appears in the UI thread.
6. The script prints both the OpenWebUI home link and the deep link (`/c/<chat_id>`), opening them automatically when `--open-browser` is set.

Tokens are never persisted: discovery order is CLI `--token`, then `OPENWEBUI_TOKEN`, then a masked prompt (if interactive). Servers older than 0.6.15 are blocked unless you pass `--allow-unstable-openwebui`.

## Update

If you installed with `pipx`, refresh the package:

```bash
pipx upgrade homedoc-journal-analyzer
```

For a `pip` installation:

```bash
pip install --upgrade homedoc-journal-analyzer
```

## Debugging

`--debug` logs:
- full LLM JSON payload (prompt + options) once,
- 10s streaming summaries (elapsed, chunks, chars, ~tokens, tok/s),
- final summary,
- cluster preview (top 20).

> Security note: payloads include real log text; only enable on trusted hosts.

## Preflight

- The script counts candidate lines first to avoid grinding through millions of events and to allow capping the work load. 
- If over the threshold (`--max-entries`), you'll be prompted (or auto-capped with `--yes`/CI).

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See `LICENSE`.
